Well, good morning.
The timer went off, so I
assume we're supposed to start.
It's great to be here with you.
My name is Dave Ralph, for those
of you who maybe don't know me.
Uh, I've been here a couple of times,
and it's just a, uh, a privilege to
be able to come back and share with
you a little bit out of this morning.
I spent most of my career as a
Christian school administrator.
So I was in the school system,
loved the school system.
One of the things I really loved about
it is that no two days were the same.
You have all these layers of people
and relationships that you're trying
to build, you have teachers and you've
got students and you've got parents
and all that, so it's, it's a, it's
a fantastic place to work and I
thoroughly enjoyed my career doing that.
Because the school is such a complicated,
uh, organization, we developed handbooks.
And so, we had a administrative handbook
so all the principals knew exactly
kind of what was our expectation.
We would have a, uh, parent.
Student handbook so that when the kids
came, they knew what the classroom
was supposed to be all about, what
the rules were, what you're allowed
to do, what you weren't allowed to do.
Uh, we had a Emergency handbook and
say in case something went wrong.
We had an athletic handbook We even had
a coach's handbook so that the coaches
knew what our expectations of them would
be We had all these different handbooks
In fact in my office I had a three ring
binder about that big and I called it
the handbook of handbooks because it had
all these different handbooks all in one
place So as I began to read the book of
Deuteronomy, I was, I was engaged by it.
I thought, you know, this is like
a handbook, you know, this is like
section by section by section, all the
things that if you wanted to be a good
Jewish person, as you entered into
Israel, this is what you needed to do.
I thought it was just really
cool and really amazing.
In fact, in Deuteronomy 12 verse
one, it says this, these are the
decrees and laws that you must
be careful to obey in the land.
that the Lord has given to you.
I said, Yes, this is a handbook.
Now, the Book of Deuteronomy is the
fifth book of the Old Testament.
It's the last book of the first five, and
the first five are called the Pentateuch.
The word Deuteronomy means second law.
Now, it's not an additional
law to the law of Moses.
In fact, the original law
was given in Exodus 20.
And then throughout the book of Exodus
and then into Numbers and then into, uh,
into Leviticus and then into Numbers.
It's kind of an explanation,
a fullness of the law.
And then what happens in Deuteronomy is
that, again, he forms this handbook and he
restates for a second time all the things
that the people of Israel need to keep in
mind as they go into the promised land.
There's lots and lots of interesting,
interesting stuff, uh, in Deuteronomy.
If you haven't read that for a while,
I encourage you to go back and...
Wade through it just a little bit.
It's really detailed, but, but
it's such a, a powerful book.
To kind of give you a context before
we jump into, uh, Deuteronomy chapter
20, to kind of give you an idea of
this handbook, uh, it starts out kind
of with, with talking about the feasts
and the festivals and how the Jews are
gonna celebrate the faithfulness of
God when they get to the Promised Land.
It talks about proper worship and
improper worship to make sure that
they're doing things the right way.
It talks a little bit about their
judicial system, the law and the court
and how all of that fits together.
Even talks about a king.
They don't have a king, but
God knows that they're going
to have a king at some point.
So he begins to give this wonderful job
description of what a king should be like.
Talks about the priests and the Levites.
Talks about the prophets.
Talks about cities of refuge.
Talks about being a good witness and the
need for witnesses in court to do justice.
And then it comes to this passage
in Deuteronomy 20 about war.
This is an interesting statement to
have in a handbook, you know something
about war So I started looking at it
and I really became very fascinated with
this whole concept of war now Let me
start at the very beginning saying this
is not This is not a message about the
conflict between country and country.
This is not going to be a violent, at
least I hope it doesn't come across,
as being a violent, uh, sermon.
It's not a violent message today.
This is really about the warfare that
we go through as Christians, that
spiritual warfare that we have, and I
think some of the principles that are
laid down in this handbook really, uh,
Uh, can be applied to our lives as we
do that same kind of, uh, conflict and
conflict resolution in our own spirits.
So let me begin here and we're
going to take a look at Deuteronomy
20 kind of phrase by phrase.
That's kind of the way that that I roll.
Uh, and
I had the same problem
last time I was here.
Somehow it just doesn't like me.
That's on.
Boom.
Nothing.
Okay, just hit that little
button there for me.
Thank you very much good I have little
lines that I'm going to underline, and
we'll, we'll kind of forget about that.
You'll just have to go with me as
I, uh, look at various words here.
But I'm a kind of a word guy.
So when I look at a passage of
Scripture, I want to know exactly
what the Lord is saying to me.
So oftentimes I go by the word.
Sometimes I go by phrases just
to try to understand and to, and
to get to the bottom of things.
So we can't go much further than the
first word, when, okay, when we go to war.
Not if we go to war.
The book of Deuteronomy was written
on this side of the Jordan River.
In other words, they haven't
gone into the promised land yet.
They're still kind of wandering
around in the wilderness.
Remember, they did that for like 40 years.
They're kind of getting close, very
close to the end of that 40 years.
They're about ready to go
across the Jordan River, but
they're still on this side.
But he says when you go across,
you're going to enter into war.
It's not an if.
It's a real live thing.
The same thing is true of us as believers.
We are in a war.
We fight against our enemies,
at least I do, every single day.
It's a constant kind of
war that we're involved in.
When you go to war, not if you go to war.
And if you go to war, this word for war
is used four times in these four verses.
It's translated war here.
It's also translated battle.
It's also translated
fight in this passage.
But in the Old Testament,
war is used 323 times.
So you can see that the nation
of Israel has been raised up in
a time to be God's chosen people.
But it's a violent time.
It's a, it's a war torn kind of time.
And we're called to be believers
today in the kingdom of God.
And it's a violent time in which we live.
There are lots of enemies.
We're going to talk about some
of those enemies in a minute.
There are lots of enemies
who want to tear us down.
If you go to war.
And if you go to war against your enemies.
Now the word for enemy, the
core word for enemy is hate.
Those people who hate you.
Those people who are your adversaries.
Those people who want you done.
And that's the physical aspect of the war.
But we have enemies that are against
us, that are our adversaries.
They want to see us done.
It says when you go to war
against your enemies and see.
I gotta stop there too, because this
word, see, is a real interesting word.
It's a word that has distance to it.
So it's like, you're gonna see
the armies way far away, kind
of in the horizon of things.
Kind of reminds me of a lot of movies
I've seen where the good guys are
down in the valley, and they look up
because they know the enemy's coming,
and they look up and they see three
horses at the top of the mountain.
They say, pshh.
No problem.
We can handle that.
And then they begin to see wave after
wave after wave of the army coming down
upon them, and it's just overwhelming.
It's just intimidating as they see in
the distance in the in the distance.
They're not there yet, but they can
just see this army pouring over top
of their, uh, of the mountainside,
and they are indeed overwhelmed.
They are intimidated.
There's this intensity.
Even when I watch one of those movies,
it's like there's this thing that happens
in the bottom of my stomach saying
this is not going to turn out well.
The heroes aren't going to
live through this battle.
It's impossible.
So he says, when you see horses and
chariots and armies greater than yours.
This is a huge thing.
These people are outnumbered.
When we look at our enemies, and
let's look at our enemies for
just a second, I have three that
I want to just briefly talk about.
The first enemy is the world.
Now I'm not talking about the planet,
you know, I'm really not talking about
global warming today or climate change.
I'm talking about the world that
John first, yeah, John talks
about in 1 John 2, uh, 15, where
he says, do not love the world.
The world is that
prevailing secular society.
It's the whole value system
that doesn't include God.
It's the worldview without God.
Our secular society operates
on selfishness, selfish
principles, ungodly standards.
Some of the principles that we see in our
world that attack us are things like greed
and ambition, pleasure and entitlement.
I saw an interesting definition
of materialism because I think
that kind of summarizes things
in kind of in a nutshell, a
nice definition of materialism.
It's we gotta get stuff and we want
to get stuff that we really don't
need and we buy it with money that we
really don't have in order to impress
people that we don't even like.
That's kind of where we are.
That's kind of the
bombardment of our society.
All of advertisement has
that in their mindset.
You cannot play basketball unless
you have the right kind of shoes.
You will never be accepted in
your social realm unless you use
the right kind of toothpaste.
You have to drive the right kind of car.
You have to wear the
right kind of clothes.
You have to have the right kind
of hairdo if you have hair.
You know, it's those kind of things.
You have to do these
things to be accepted.
It is that society that's against
God that's without God in our lives.
That's the enemy number one That's a
scary enemy to me The second enemy is
even more scary and it's the it's the
enemy that I see when I look in my mirror.
It's myself It's the sinful nature.
We're born with the sinful nature and
we can't really get away from it We
can try to kill it, but it's always
kind of there It'll always come up and
whop you upside the head when you're
not expecting it It's that twisted,
fallen nature that we struggle with.
It's just bent towards sin.
Galatians 5 says it this way, The
sinful nature desires what is contrary
to the spirit, and the spirit what is
contrary to the, uh, the fallen nature.
The sinful nature and the spirit
are in conflict with one another.
They're doing war with one another.
A couple of verses later in Galatians
5, 19 to 21, it begins to list
the activities and the actions and
the mindset of the sinful nature.
And I'm not going to read all of
it, but it includes stuff like this.
Hatred, discord, jealousy,
rage, immorality, drunkenness,
dissensions, and envy.
It's that sinfulness that we really
can't get away from sometimes.
So when you combine the world and
then our sinfulness, you can see the
enemy is getting a little larger.
And the third one is one that's invisible.
So the world is kind of
that enemy from without.
The sinful nature is kind
of the enemy from within.
And the third one is an
invisible, uh, enemy.
It is the powers of darkness.
It's the devil.
1 Peter 5, 8 says this.
Be sober minded.
Be watchful.
Your adversary, the devil,
prowls around like a roaring
lion, seeking someone to devour.
And then in Ephesians 6, 11, it says,
Put on the full armor of God, that
you may be able to stand against your
adversary and the schemes of the devil.
He is the enemy.
He's described, uh, in, in Scripture as
the deceiver, the liar, murderer, accuser.
Tempter, the evil one.
He's seen as seducing,
opposing, deceiving, hindering,
tempting, blaspheming.
That's a pretty powerful enemy.
So you have this enemy of darkness
and you have this sinful nature
within you and you have this world
around us in our society that's
telling that God doesn't even exist.
It's a pretty heavy enemy.
So when you see the horses and
the chariots and the army greater
than all of these, As spiritual
people, we have the same kind of
overwhelming look at the enemy.
And then, what does Moses say?
He says, when you see all of that
happening, don't be afraid of them.
When I read that, I
thought, wait, wait, wait.
You just described this
incredible, uh, enemy, and
we're not supposed to be afraid?
I think I would be a little afraid
if I'm down in the valley and I look
up and I see these waves and waves
and waves of enemy coming at me.
He says, don't be afraid.
This word literally means,
do not stand in awe of them.
Do not stand in awe of them.
And I'm thinking, I would, I think
I would be honestly, to be honest,
I think if you see this, I think
I would stand a little bit in awe
of about what's gonna happen here.
And so the question is, why not stand
a little bit in awe, why not be just
a little afraid of what's going on?
And he gives the answer, because, because
the Lord your God The one who brought
you out of Egypt will be with you.
I love this answer because
it's such a powerful one.
He says, because the Lord, not
just a Lord, not just a king,
not just a mighty warrior.
No, it is talking about the Lord,
the one who is over all things,
the one who has everything in the
palm of his hand, the almighty one.
This word is the word Yahweh,
and I find it so cool that, that
Moses would use Yahweh here.
Because Moses is the first one
who ever heard the name Yahweh.
You'll remember the story.
Out, he's out in the
wilderness in the burning bush.
I love that story.
And out of the burning bush
comes the voice of God.
And he begins to dialogue
with the voice of God.
And, and, uh, God tells him, Now,
Moses, you've got to go down to Pharaoh.
I know he's like the king
of the world down there.
But you've got to go down to Pharaoh.
And you're going to go
face to face with him.
You need to confront him.
And you need to tell him
to let the people go.
Moses is a little afraid of that.
And I find it interesting because
the people are afraid here and
Moses is a little afraid of that.
He says, well, who
should I say sending me?
And that's when out of the, out of
the fire of the fiery, uh, fiery
bush, it says, you tell him that
I am, that I am has sent you.
And the name for Yahweh is I am that I am.
So tell him that the Lord is coming.
Okay.
We need to be confident
here because it is the Lord.
on our side.
And notice how he flips
this very, very quickly.
He goes from this transcendent
almighty God, the Lord, down to
our God, not our God, your God.
It's a personal God.
He's gonna go with the army.
Yes, but he's gonna go
with each one of you.
The Lord, your God.
This word for God is Elohim.
And the word Elohim is the
name for God used in Genesis 1
and 2 in the creation of man.
I think you're going to be studying
Genesis here in a couple of weeks, maybe.
Notice that when he's talking
about God the creator, it's Elohim.
God is the one who's created the
world, but he also created you.
He is your God.
He's your creator.
God knew you in the womb.
He knows how many hairs
you have on your head.
Not too hard to count mine, but some
people have a lot more hair than I do.
He knows the hairs on your head.
He knows how many days
you're going to live.
He knows all of those things about you.
He knows your thoughts.
He knows your, your loves.
He knows your desires.
He knows you through and through
the Lord, the almighty one, your
God is going to go with you.
That's a pretty powerful,
pretty powerful solution.
Notice he has one more
explanation of who God is.
It's one who brought you out of Egypt.
I think he's really, uh, a
fascinating thing here is he
takes them back to the past, takes
them back to the past of Egypt.
You remember when we were Egypt
now again, these people haven't
gotten in the promised land, right?
They're still wandering around out here.
Do you remember Egypt?
That's when I came down, Moses came
down and, and, and, uh, I brought the,
uh, I confronted Moses and God is the
one who said I confronted Pharaoh.
Uh, I am, God is the one
who brought the plagues.
God is the one who plagued
all of Egypt, but he kept each
one of you guys safe, okay?
You were the ones, you were his people,
he kept you safe through all of that.
You remember, he, Pharaoh basically
kicked us out of Egypt and we took a
bunch of gold with us and plundered
the Egyptians, and then Pharaoh
said, uh oh, I made a mistake.
We need to get those Israelites back
here, we need to enslave them again.
So what does he do?
He gets all of his horses, and he gets
all of his chariots, and he has this
big army, and he goes after the people.
And when he gets to the people, they turn
around, said, Oh, man, we are boxed in.
This is not going to be a good situation.
We have the Red Sea behind us.
We can't move.
We're just going to get wiped out.
We're either going to get killed
or we're going to take back and
we're going to be back in slavery.
And then you have the wonderful
story of the parting of that Red Sea.
And God parts the waters.
And the Israelite people
just walk across on dry land.
And then the horses and the chariots
and the big army get in there.
And God, I don't know if He snaps
His finger, I don't know if He
blinks His eyes or whatever He does.
And covers them up.
Covers them right up with the water.
By the way, Matt, thank you
for the songs you chose today.
I don't know if you studied
this passage deeply or what.
But man, everything we sang
today was just, it just rings
of truth of this passage.
Thank you so much for doing that.
So anyway, it is this God who brought
them out of Egypt and provided the way he
redeemed them and saved them from Egypt.
It's that God, your God, that
Lord, who's going to go with you.
And He will be with you.
Notice again, the change of tenses here.
Think back in the past, how
faithful God has been for you.
And now He says, now you
will be, He will be with you.
When is He going to be with you?
When you go to war.
When you go to war, God will be with you.
Powerful statement.
If you go to the next slide, you're
probably going to have to go through just
a bunch of them to get to the next one.
No, you didn't.
Oh, technology, I love you guys.
It starts out the same way, when, not if.
Notice a little difference here.
When you are about ready to go into
battle, Okay, this isn't seeing the the
enemy from the horizon from the distance.
Now you're about ready to go into battle.
I mean, you're talking about
seeing them face to face here.
So when you are about ready to go
into battle, here's the protocol.
Here's the handbook.
This is what you're supposed to do.
You shall call the priest forward
and he will address the army.
When I read that, I
laughed just a little bit.
Wait, wait, wait.
We're about ready to go into war.
I mean, this is going to be a
life and death kind of struggle
that we're about ready to go into,
and you want the priest to come?
No, no, I want to hear from the king.
Oh, we don't have a king yet.
I want to hear from
the commanding officer.
I want to at least hear from the guy
who's going to tell me the strategy as
to when I'm supposed to go and when I'm
supposed to move to the left and right.
I want to hear that.
I want to hear something
military that's going to help
me when I have to go and fight.
The priest?
I'm not sure.
That's the guy I want to hear from.
Why choose the priest?
It's because God knows and Moses
knows that every battle that
Israelite fight, every battle that
we fight is a spiritual battle.
We need to hear from God in order to be
successful, in order to be victorious.
They're all spiritual battles.
You just walk through, uh,
the, the, uh, the history of
Israel when they go and fight.
It's all a spiritual battle.
It's all trusting and obeying God when
they didn't trust, and they went to AI.
They got smacked because they didn't
obey God, and they were defeated at AI.
But every, every time that they are
victorious, just read the passages,
how they just rely upon God.
They do crazy things, like marching
around a city like seven times, blowing
horns, and God knocks down the walls.
He asks them to do crazy things.
He said, okay, we want to
have a worship team next week.
We want you guys to go
out in front of the army.
Okay, and you're going to
sing, and when you sing, we're
going to come back after you.
What military strategy is that?
It's craziness.
But, when you're about ready to go
into battle, call the priest forward.
And he is then going to address the army.
He's going to come forward
and address the army.
First of all, he comes forward.
He becomes the leader of the army.
And there are some times in your
life, in spiritual life, you
might have to be the leader.
It might be in your family, it might
be at work, it might be in this church,
that God is going to call you to be the
priest to come forward and talk and share
about what God has laid on your heart.
He comes forward and
He addresses the army.
Now this word for address
is a very, very rare word.
It is used only 1, 140
times in the Old Testament.
It's a very common word.
It means to speak, but it can also
have in the context a command.
And so what the priest is going
to share might be a command.
It can also be in the
context of giving a promise.
And so there's promise that the
priest is about ready to share.
It can be a warning to the soldiers.
It can be a declaration of fact.
And all of those things, I think, really
find some meaning in this passage.
And he's going to address the
army, the people, the nation.
And so he says this, Hear, O Israel,
Another great little word here, O Israel.
It means to listen, but it
means more than just listen.
It means to pay attention.
It means to understand what
I'm about ready to say because
this is important stuff.
It means to listen so that you can obey.
Reminds me a little bit of a classroom
and the bell rings and the kids don't
quiet down and they're still passing
notes and they're still, uh, goofing
around and all those kinds of things.
And the teacher stands
up and he says, now.
Be quiet now, did you hear the bell?
I have something I need to tell each
one of you in this classroom, and it's
going to impact you by the end of the
day, so you need to really listen up.
Usually in the classroom,
it is dead silence.
You hear a pin drop.
And I have a feeling this is the
same thing that happens to this army.
You can hear a pin drop.
And when God is going to tell us as
believers how to live our lives, we
need to listen with great attention.
Here, O Israel, today, right now, this
is the change here, okay, we're not
looking out at the, at the enemy far away.
It is like right now, it is today that
we're about ready to go into battle.
We can see them eyeball to eyeball.
We can see their ugly teeth compared
with our nice white shining teeth.
We can see, we can even
smell their breath.
Whoo hoo!
Don't want to have that kind of enemy.
But that's how close we are today.
We are going into battle
against your enemies.
Then he steps up and he gives
us four bits of information.
And again, this is not what you
should do when you go into battle.
This is what you shouldn't do.
We need to go into battle.
I think no, no, no tell me something how
to use my sword Tell me how to use my
shield That's what I want to know what I'm
supposed to do not what I'm not supposed
to do But he gives us what we're not
supposed to do because we are about ready
to do the opposite of what he's saying
Don't do we're gonna do these things.
Okay, so he's there to warn us.
Don't do these things.
First of all, don't be faint hearted Now,
faint hearted in the English is a compound
word, and in Hebrew, it's a compound word.
And the first word here is faint,
but in, in, uh, the Hebrew, the
first word is timid or soft.
And the second word is heart,
but it can also mean mind.
It can also mean determination.
It also can mean the inner man.
So he said, you're about
ready to go into battle.
Don't be Charlie Brown wishy washy.
This is the time you need to stand up.
This is the time where
you need to be courageous.
This is the time where you
cannot be faint hearted.
You need to be brave hearted.
So if you want to put it in
a more positive, positive
perspective, you can say that.
Be courageous, be brave hearted.
Secondly, he says, or don't be afraid.
Now this is the same word that
we saw in verse one of afraid.
Don't stand in awe.
So don't stand in awe of this
army when it starts to come upon
you, you know, today is happening.
You're going to be seeing these guys.
They're probably not going to look nice.
They're going to be really fierce looking.
Don't stand in awe of them positively.
Let's say let's stand in awe
of the Lord, not the men.
Thirdly, do not panic.
Don't lose perspective.
Don't lose your composure.
In our terminology, maybe
it's, don't freak out.
Don't freak out when you see them.
Rather, be confident.
Don't be fainthearted.
Be courageous.
Don't be afraid.
Stand in awe of God.
Don't be terrified.
Don't panic.
Be confident.
And then thirdly, it says,
don't be terrified by them.
This word for terrified means to tremble.
It means to shake.
It also can mean to flee or
to retreat or to run away.
Don't run away when you see the enemy.
You're seeing them, but
don't be terrified by them.
Actually move forward.
Move forward with confidence.
And it's interesting here.
It does say, uh, Don't
be terrified by them.
Literally, it means don't be
afraid on account of their face.
Now we're seeing these
enemies face to face.
And it's important for us as
believers in Jesus Christ to face
our, our, our enemies face to face
so that we can see what it is.
We can understand what this
world is trying to pull us into.
We can understand ourselves better and the
sinful nature that we're fighting against.
We can understand this is a,
this is a, uh, a movement of the
holy, of the, of the dark side.
This is a, a dark thing that we
need to just be aware of what it is.
So we need to see it, but we do need
to not be terrified and retreat from
it, rather we need to move forward.
And finally, he gives us the reason how we
can do that in the midst of all of this.
And it starts out the same way.
Thank you.
This is verse four, by the way, not two
and three, but verse four says four.
And whenever you see the word four,
think of it as an anachronism.
And the F stands for following the O
stands for obvious and the R stands
for reason the following obvious reason
Why shouldn't we be terrified and run
away for the following obvious reason?
He starts the same way as he did
in verse 1 for the Lord your God
It's the Lord your God again.
It's Yahweh Elohim.
The Lord your God is the one I Think
that's interesting that he says he
is the one Because the war that we
fight and the war that the Israelites
are about ready to fight it wasn't
about them It's all about God.
He is the one in the
middle of this conflict.
It's not us.
It's not our own strength.
When we try to do it on our own
strength and our own abilities,
our own talents, we mess up.
But when it's all about Him,
when we can focus in on the
one, the Lord, the God, our God.
He is the one who does three things here.
Notice that.
He's the one, first of
all, who goes with you.
This word for go means to walk.
I'm a hiker, so I, I interpret it
as, let's go for a hike, God, and
God's gonna go with me when I hike.
It could also mean to march, probably
a better suited, uh, interpretation for
the army who's about ready to march.
God is going to march with you.
God is going to move forward as
you move forward with confidence.
God is going to move with you.
I, I think that these verses up here,
by the way, are, are some of the
best Christmas verses you can choose.
Because it talks about God being with us.
And so much at Christmas time we talk
about God coming and becoming flesh and
dwelling among us and being with us.
In fact, it's Emmanuel, God with us.
Well, this passage says God
is going to be with us when?
When we go to war.
When do we go to war?
Every single day.
God is with us every day and
every moment of what we do.
God goes with us.
God marches with us.
That's why we can be so confident.
Secondly, he goes to fight.
For us.
Notice that he's with us, but he's
also going to fight for us and he's
going to fight against our enemies.
Now, I don't know if you've ever had
anybody say, Hey, I'm going to come over
and I want to mow your grass for you.
Sure.
That's great.
So he comes over and he brings his
lawnmower and he mows the grass for me.
I don't do anything.
I sit at home and I
drink my little diet Dr.
Pepper and somebody mows my grass for me.
That's what's being said here.
You go into war, you can be confident.
Why?
Because you're not going to have to fight.
God is going to fight for you.
God is going to fight
against your enemies.
If he's not the one who is
fighting against the enemies,
you're going to get wiped out.
But if he's the one who fights for you.
You can send your choir out
front 'cause God is going to
take care of the, the battle.
You can just march around and blow some
horns and the whole wall's gonna fall down
if God is the one who's fighting for you.
And then it finally, it says
he's going to go with you.
He's gonna fight for you, and he's
going to give you the victory.
I can't think of a better Old Testament
word than this word for victory.
Probably my favorite word
in the Old Testament.
In the New Testament, I really love grace.
But in the Old Testament, I think
victory is such a powerful word.
It's the word Yeshua.
And Yeshua means complete,
absolute victory.
And Yeshua is the Hebrew word
that we get the, the name Joshua.
And I think, how cool is that?
Moses is the one who's talking, and he's
saying, you know, basically, Yeshua.
It's the victory because Moses isn't going
to lead the people into the promised land.
He's about ready to be done He's gonna
go up into the mountainside here in a
couple chapters He's just gonna die and
yet Joshua is the one who's going to
take them across into victory Joshua is
the one who comes up with the incredible
plan of marching around Jericho.
Okay, it's Joshua Who's the one who
is going to save them this word for
victory means to deliver to rescue?
To defend to bring salvation and
this hebrew word for yashua is
also the root that we get the
name Jesus, isn't that cool?
He's going to go with you.
He's going to fight for you.
And guess what?
He's going to give you He's
going to give you Jesus.
Jesus is the Savior.
Jesus is the Redeemer.
Jesus is all that we need to have
spiritual victory in our lives.
So, we can go with great confidence.
We can go brave hearted with courage.
We can stand in awe of God.
We can be confident.
We can move forward.
Why?
Because Jesus is going with us.
Jesus is walking with us.
Jesus is the one who is
going to fight for us.
Jesus is the one who will give us victory.
Let's pray together.
Father, we thank you.
For this word today, Lord, all of
us are facing spiritual battles.
Lord, it might be a battle we had
even getting out of bed today.
It might be the spiritual battles that we
face as we as we look at our country and
have such pressure at work or at school
or wherever it might be to conform to
a society that doesn't believe in God.
It might be that, Lord, that sin
that we struggle with so much in our
lives and we just can't get past it.
Lord, we, we're, we're
facing spiritual battles.
Some of us are facing the, the powers
of darkness that are coming against us,
and Lord, we need to have confidence.
Lord, we need to depend upon you.
Help us, Father, to trust in you,
to realize that we're standing
in awe of no one but you.
You are the Lord.
You are our God.
You come with us.
You fight for us.
And you give us victory.
Thank you, Lord.
We praise you today.
We pray it in Jesus name.
Amen.